students/ryan/experts.md, before:

# Finding an Expert

_Make a list of 5 people you’d be interested in talking to. For each person in the list, include their name, a one sentence description of who they are/what they have to offer, and a link to their web presence. Sort the list so the people you’re most interested in talking to are at the top._

1. [__Nikole Hannah Jones__](https://nikolehannahjones.com/) is an award-winning reporter with The New York Times Magazine, covering civil rights and racial injustice. Prior to joining The Times, she worked as an investigative reporter at ProPublica, where she wrote a [__detailed piece__](https://www.propublica.org/article/living-apart-how-the-government-betrayed-a-landmark-civil-rights-law) on how the federal government (failed to) enforce the 1968 Fair Housing Act, which was aimed at reversing housing segregation. Her perspective on how to connect this policy with current indicators in order to demonstrate the legacies of redlining on current-day New York would be invaluable. [_(NYT Magazine Best Of)_](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/11/magazine/11nikole.html) [_(Twitter)_](https://twitter.com/nhannahjones?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)

2. [__Jason Richardson__](https://ncrc.org/jason-richardson/)  is the Director of Research and Evaluation at the [National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC)](https://ncrc.org/about-us/), a national non-profit focused on equity and fairness in the lending and banking space. He has expertise in mortgage finance and its impact on people and communities, and as a researcher for the NAACP developed an understanding of bank's lending habits to minority communities and developed powerful methods to identify minority clusters that are often ignored by mainstream bank and non-bank lenders. [_(LinkedIn)_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasonrichardsongeographer/)

3. [__N.D.B. Connolly__](https://history.jhu.edu/directory/nathan-connolly/) is a the Herbert Baxter Adams Associate Professor of History at the Johns Hopkins University and the author of _A World More Concrete: Real Estate and the Remaking of Jim Crow South Florida_. He lent his significant expertise in the history of race and urban America to the conceptualization and development of _[Mapping Inequality](https://dsl.richmond.edu/panorama/redlining/)_.

4. [__Tracy Jan__](https://twitter.com/TracyJan) is a reporter covering the intersection of race and the economy at the Washington Post. Her [detailed analysis](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2018/03/28/redlining-was-banned-50-years-ago-its-still-hurting-minorities-today/) on how redlining is still hurting minorities today demonstrates considerable expertise that would be a great help to my conceptualization of how I can explore the legacies of this policy today. [_(LinkedIn)_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tracy-jan-64505221/)

5. [__Leila Bozorg__](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lbozorg/) is the Deputy Commissioner for Neighborhood Strategies at NYC Department of Housing Preservation & Development (HPD), the Office charged with ensuring that HPD’s development and preservation efforts are guided by meaningful community engagement. Her experience in this role, I think Leila will have great insight into the dynamics behind access to fair and affordable housing that plague New Yorkers today.

Commit message:

add Baradaran and Shapiro to experts

students/ryan/experts.md, after:

# Finding an Expert

_Make a list of 5 people you’d be interested in talking to. For each person in the list, include their name, a one sentence description of who they are/what they have to offer, and a link to their web presence. Sort the list so the people you’re most interested in talking to are at the top._

1. [__Nikole Hannah Jones__](https://nikolehannahjones.com/) is an award-winning reporter with The New York Times Magazine, covering civil rights and racial injustice. Prior to joining The Times, she worked as an investigative reporter at ProPublica, where she wrote a [__detailed piece__](https://www.propublica.org/article/living-apart-how-the-government-betrayed-a-landmark-civil-rights-law) on how the federal government (failed to) enforce the 1968 Fair Housing Act, which was aimed at reversing housing segregation. Her perspective on how to connect this policy with current indicators in order to demonstrate the legacies of redlining on current-day New York would be invaluable. [_(NYT Magazine Best Of)_](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/11/magazine/11nikole.html) [_(Twitter)_](https://twitter.com/nhannahjones?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)

2. [__Jason Richardson__](https://ncrc.org/jason-richardson/) is the Director of Research and Evaluation at the [National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC)](https://ncrc.org/about-us/), a national non-profit focused on equity and fairness in the lending and banking space. He has expertise in mortgage finance and its impact on people and communities, and as a researcher for the NAACP developed an understanding of bank's lending habits to minority communities and developed powerful methods to identify minority clusters that are often ignored by mainstream bank and non-bank lenders. [_(LinkedIn)_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasonrichardsongeographer/)

3. [__Mehrsa Baradaran__](http://www.law.uga.edu/profile/mehrsa-baradaran) is an author and a law professor specializing in banking law at the University of Georgia. She has written two books on banking and the racial wealth gap, [_How The Other Half Banks_](https://www.amazon.com/How-Other-Half-Banks-Exploitation/dp/0674286065) and [_The Color of Money_](https://www.amazon.com/Color-Money-Black-Racial-Wealth/dp/0674970950). She was recently featured on Vox's _Explained_ episode _"The Racial Wealth Gap"_. [_(Twitter)_](https://twitter.com/MehrsaBaradaran?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor) [_(Wiki)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mehrsa_Baradaran)

4. [__Thomas Shapiro__](http://www.brandeis.edu/facultyguide/person.html?emplid=f1f37909668ee529ab0c194eecc8c89d6a589fc8) is an author and professor of Sociology and Public Policy at Brandeis University. His primary research interests are in racial inequality and public policy. He wrote the award-winning books [_Black Wealth / White Wealth_](Black Wealth/ White Wealth) and [_The Hidden Cost of Being African-American_](https://www.amazon.com/Hidden-Cost-Being-African-American/dp/0195181387), among others. He was recently featured on Vox's _Explained_ episode _"The Racial Wealth Gap"_. [_(Wiki)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Shapiro)

5. [__N.D.B. Connolly__](https://history.jhu.edu/directory/nathan-connolly/) is a the Herbert Baxter Adams Associate Professor of History at the Johns Hopkins University and the author of _A World More Concrete: Real Estate and the Remaking of Jim Crow South Florida_. He lent his significant expertise in the history of race and urban America to the conceptualization and development of _[Mapping Inequality](https://dsl.richmond.edu/panorama/redlining/)_.

6. [__Tracy Jan__](https://twitter.com/TracyJan) is a reporter covering the intersection of race and the economy at the Washington Post. Her [detailed analysis](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2018/03/28/redlining-was-banned-50-years-ago-its-still-hurting-minorities-today/) on how redlining is still hurting minorities today demonstrates considerable expertise that would be a great help to my conceptualization of how I can explore the legacies of this policy today. [_(LinkedIn)_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tracy-jan-64505221/)

7. [__Leila Bozorg__](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lbozorg/) is the Deputy Commissioner for Neighborhood Strategies at NYC Department of Housing Preservation & Development (HPD), the Office charged with ensuring that HPD’s development and preservation efforts are guided by meaningful community engagement. Her experience in this role, I think Leila will have great insight into the dynamics behind access to fair and affordable housing that plague New Yorkers today.
