Speaker 1:          00:00:00       You know, I can play you some of the pirates that are on the air now looking at your time. Do you live in, so I'm in Carol Gardens here. Sun Bear. So one of my later prepared questions, but I should ask, maybe I write out front does that like I don't have a radio right now and I'm wondering if you have any suggestions for me. Totally, yeah, I couldn't suggest it achieved. A lot of you could spend 50 bucks and get a really good radio like gets a bit FM and also short way, but it took very good after I'm radio, it's called a tech son. Pl three 10 texts on pl three take. You look on Ebay, there are actually imported from China. There's um, there's a company I picked, they're called a non co a n o n c. O. So like radio aficionados, like the star chief and I'm, they're good radios or what you want out of a radio is, especially if you're listening well to the pirates or anything else, it's select [inaudible].

Speaker 1:          00:00:59       It'll separate a station out from this station next to it. So car radios are often good in that way. I mean I think a lot of pig or people don't listen to the radio anymore, but if they do, they're listening to the cars. Right. If it's not satellite radio is just like a whole other thing. Right? Yeah. So you could go or you know, or maybe in a thrift store you can even just find a cheap radio. The thing about, even though I am a confirmed radio, do you, you don't really need a specialty fantastic radio to hear, hear the stations in New York because they're meant to be local. Right? Right. Yeah. I guess uh, being able to tune the specific frequency. Is it something that I'm interested in, like the dial, it's hard to know exactly which exact frequency or on then definitely go to something with a digital readout.

Speaker 1:          00:01:45       Which fees will have somewhere. I have one. Yeah, I like to talk to you about shortly if cause I want and I'd like to get a radio. They can also do short wave we'll do is we'll go out and they're decent for the price. You know there are based on like a digital chip, like dirt came out in the past past, you know, five to 10 years. So they give the performance of a radio up. Pr formerly would be like $200. They're were really good. Okay, cool. Who are still like in the hobby of sort of wave listing? They liked them because they perform well, they call them ultra lights. They have their own like wow, look what I got with this really good expensive radio. Awesome. Cool. Um, so that would probably be a good place to start. That's why, that's exactly what I'm looking for it just because I, I'm starting from the, the absolute beginnings of nothing here. So there was another hood. This is, you know, it's the same names. We'll keep coming up. This is a little more expensive but this is also, oh it's called the tax on the 80. It's, it's like $150 per yard. Got It. It sounds good because I am not going to make sure that does sound good.

Speaker 1:          00:02:59       Nice to see that has a dial to men, but you can punch him with the disease.

Speaker 2:          00:03:03       I see somebody work on plastic pollution pirate. Yeah. It's different.

Speaker 1:          00:03:08       So this is good too. Nice. I speaker. So it sounds a little better than the smaller wine because for one it's also great. Yeah.

Speaker 2:          00:03:15       Awesome. And it has like an audio out, some sort of eighth inch or something. Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:03:18       Learn has a, it has a headphone out and um, uncle line out too.

Speaker 3:          00:03:26       Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:03:27       Yeah. I think it has a line out so it has like, you can listen on headphones but you could also be recorded. Awesome. Sorry I'm getting old. Yeah, it has a line out and a headphone out. So that's really, that's generally something I like. Yeah, absolutely. Because you couldn't be listening through the speaker and recording at the same time cause some only have a headphone Jack and that way you'd have them on for, on the headphones while you record. Sure. So if you want to go line out.

Speaker 2:          00:03:55       Yeah, I, I, I, I think I might want to do that. Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:03:58       Yeah. So when I go around the city and look for stations, I often bring this one. Okay, cool.

Speaker 2:          00:04:03       How do you usually record stations? Uh, when for the website?

Speaker 1:          00:04:07       Um, I usually record here. Uh, so it goes straight into, um, are you, are you use this radio? This is a good sense as an HD radio, which like most people who've never heard of HD radio, it's like a digital kind of radio and they came out and they were in popular. Again, that's something that's in cars. But this now, like when it came out it was like $99 and 11 could even get a rebate. Now it's recognized among audio files as being like a really good FM receiver. So you can find it online for about probably four or $500 now.

Speaker 2:          00:04:47       Wow. Is that a software defined? I've been reading about all the different that's, but this is, okay.

Speaker 1:          00:04:52       This is a software to find short wave radio. And this one, this is a hard, you know, this is not a computer based radio, but it's, it's basically SDR inside actually just won this. There's an annual short wave thing there we go to every year and I freakishly run one of the grand prize. Oh Wow. Congratulations. Yeah, that's all I have to. Uh,

Speaker 4:          00:05:17       I've been checking out argue pieces sometimes on radio. So CB radio is something that most people have forgotten about.

Speaker 2:          00:05:24       Yeah.

Speaker 4:          00:05:25       But it's still exists and it's kind of an interesting culture.

Speaker 1:          00:05:31       So lately since I can put this on my desk check again.

Speaker 2:          00:05:35       That's really cool. Yeah, I've been, I so I know I knew nothing about radio getting into this, this realm, but like I read the piece in the New Yorker with you sometime ago and that piqued my interest and like, you know, I was a child with pump up the volume. Obviously. Like I said, I better see that cause people keep mentee. Does it hold up? Good. Does it does let me, it's a Hollywood movie. But yeah,

Speaker 1:          00:05:58       especially at that time there was a wave of pirate radio. Um, you know, we can get into that later. Tell you, it sort of reflects what was going on at the time. There was sort of a nationwide civil disobedience of pirate radio, which was a little, not quite connected to the throat of the multicultural scene here.

Speaker 2:          00:06:16       Sherry. I, yeah, definitely. But it sort of existed in parallel. I've been reading the sort of brief history is I picked up the Lawrence solely book about free radio and it really goes into like free radio. Berkeley's especially like a cursory introduction about, you know, throughout the world.

Speaker 1:          00:06:32       I want to, I'm not sure if it's that one, but it's a pretty good one too.

Speaker 2:          00:06:39       Is it this one? Oh yeah. I think I may just goes googling and just been like saving links like crazy.

Speaker 1:          00:06:46       Not like in 2003 and that sort of, when that scene peaked and then Lpi plan came out, which was like a new sanction low power services.

Speaker 2:          00:06:56       Yeah, I've been reading about that too. Yeah. I'd love to know your thoughts on an LP FM. Is that something that's prevalent now and in this area or did it help it? Well, that's the thing.

Speaker 1:          00:07:06       You're going to actually, um, unlike, you know, um, sort of put it, took up this documentary, which is due in a few days and the first half looks at the parts of today and then, which goes back at least to the mid nineties. And then prior to that, then I started coming up. I was dating, my girlfriend and I were married and I was coming up to New York in the 1980s when I was in my late twenties and early thirties. And there for the first time I heard pirate radio. I mean, it was a radio enthusiasts. Well there was some short wave, but in where I lived in Washington DC, there wasn't like local pirate radio. But New York has a very active and going back into the 60s. So the part two of this looks at that and then it looks how it changed because that scene was like teenagers, young white guys who were sort of pre and hippies and cranking on the FCC.

Speaker 1:          00:07:58       And then slowly a changed. It changed in the mid nineties when the screw became more like, uh, the fact that community radio service and there were two tracks. One was sort of what they call micro Radio Free Radio, that the activism of that led to LPF out. So I'll Pfm essentially. Um, and then at the same time, especially in New York, La, Miami and Boston, you started to get, you know, ethnic, which I know is sort of a now and out of favor term, but the multicultural, what are my pieces? I call them the immigrant focus stations, which is mostly true. I mean there's some also like the Orthodox Jews, they have a couple of stations. So

Speaker 2:          00:08:44       not exactly immigrants. No, I know. Trying to find the right line, those things. But now I, that makes sense. It's hard. Any language today, this is just like

Speaker 1:          00:08:56       what exactly is the right thing that will encompass it all but also it, yeah. So, so what happened was, is when LPF Pfm came out first, first of all it was, you know, NPR and then nab, they tried to squash it. So they made the, it made it. So you'd have to be like two frequencies away from a local station and it didn't, if they started to it in 2001 and then it didn't get fully implemented until 2012 and now there are about 2000 stations cross country and for the most part is skipped over cities. So in New York City, um, in the boroughs particularly, there may be one frequency available for borough in Queens. There's one that I know it was a Chinese language station, Brooklyn, they're supposed to be one, but I haven't really been able to get much information about wow, what's happening with that in New Jersey there are several, like I wasn't, I actually interviewed this guy who was a pirate in the seventies and eighties and I went out like near brick, New Jersey, like an hour south and we actually went to listen to see what pirates we could here during the day when they're sort of at there, their lowest point.

Speaker 1:          00:10:12       And I could only hear, I could hear one from Brooklyn, which is 30 miles away right across the water. But otherwise there was a law, there were at least two or three, maybe more LP FM stations. One was a Hindu religion station. So away from the city of third, there are more of those. A lot of them are religious. A lot of them are just kind of automated, you know, some of them are really community focused in some of them just like broadcast, some sort of syndicated programming. We were right here. So it's good. Yeah, it seems people seem to be in favor of it from what I can read it. Sorry. It's a good thing. I mean it's, it's, it's the realization of the micro radios team of the 90s which was sort of a, I mean there were, you know, multicultural stations involved in that, but largely it was more like progressive political artistic group. New York had a bunch of them. I feel a little bad because I have 46 30 or 46 minutes and 30 seconds to tell the story. A little bit of short shrift to the micro radio, uh, scene. But there is not a lot of time for all this. No, it's cool. So anyway. And I remember, I mean I was always aware of, I mean it was definitely a shift from, you know, three, you know, a dozen stations were on citywide in 1982 and most of them that came on late at night

Speaker 1:          00:11:40       there again like young kids and they are with, they were like pranks and some of them were political. Um,

Speaker 3:          00:11:47       okay.

Speaker 1:          00:11:48       I think I lost my thought boot. They mostly, you know, they faded away and then new scene came in and about about the mid nineties. Gotcha.

Speaker 2:          00:11:56       Have you always been a radio enthusiasts? Just like ever since? Well, I mean in a way, look for content,

Speaker 1:          00:12:04       especially cross in the 70s and 80s you didn't have the Internet. If you wanted to hear weird stuff, radio was the way to go. Um, you know, there's still weird stuff, but there's not as much and some of it's become, you know, it's really become corporatized. Although radio listener, chip, the industry says is still pretty high. But to some of your specific questions that you wrote me about, you know, it's hard to say who were the scene is now today. It's really, it's in its mature phase. And Oh, I think when I was trying to say is I was aware of this new way reputations that came in, like mostly like the Caribbean station. And I remember hearing a station Wba d which, um, I made a piece on for last notes. I don't know.

Speaker 2:          00:12:57       Yeah, I did listen to that. Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:12:58       [inaudible] so, and, and Dj some tronics we'll be at, uh, I might talk.

Speaker 2:          00:13:04       Awesome. So you were listening to that life as it was happening. I remember

Speaker 1:          00:13:07       hearing it. That's about the time my son was born. He was born in [inaudible] seven. So I, you know, I thought, wow, this is really interesting. It's so different now. There were stations on every night. They were kind of like breaking the old rules and it was sort of her, a couple of reasons. Um, mainly airtime was getting really expensive. So there is still a lot of multicultural radio art, especially if you're on a, I'm on the weekends and you know, compared to other cities and other locations that the legal stations on fn, there are several Spanish stations. There's, um, there used to be more of a station station that had a programming type caught brokered where essentially there's one 93, five. It's so it's, it's outside of the city, but they cover the city to Westchester, it's called w VIP and they sell blocks of time to different programmers.

Speaker 1:          00:14:00       So there is a lot of Caribbean programming on that station and there used to be another one on FM and they were bought and turned into like a fulltime reggaeton station. So that also, you know, so when that station disappeared of put pressure, you know, on programmers who wanted to buy time by selling ads, hey, how they, um, so there was like a wave of a cheat transmitters that were coming in, sort of fueled by the micro casting free radio movement. I'll also important where people like and diner for free radio Berkeley would, um, they'd sell kits or they would make stations for people. There's another, there's an interesting book about the pirate radio in Los Angeles at time called, um, what was, is about a station called, uh, KBL BLT, sue sue carpenters, the author. Okay, cool. It's pretty good. It gives it, it gives another idea of what that scene was like. It was sort of like punk and you know, like Mike Watt, how to, how to show up basically people streaming down to even out of this woman's apartment for 24 hours a day. Um, that's awesome. Yeah. Let me just say a quick hi. Yeah. Yeah, please.

Speaker 3:          00:15:54       What

Speaker 1:          00:16:23       show the, the micro bio radio. See, you know, the kind of, it kind of peaked in the 90s largely petered out in the early two thousands leaving the Morgan to groom focus stations a lot. There was one locally called m three one oh three nine mm woody was Berg and they now run a legal station. They were never caught. If you were caught, you couldn't get a raise or a license or you were closed to LPF em. But they um, it's called, they're called wave farm down and they, let me just catch my breath. Yeah. What do I run up the stairs? So there's center for the transmission arts, like they do radio art. Oh, cool. And that's one thing they were doing when they were on there was it was like they would have all night parties on rooftops and people would do like experimental art. That's awesome. Fuck that. So

Speaker 2:          00:17:21       yeah, one of the things I like grabbed my attention about the thinking about this is that yeah, I don't know if you're familiar with the lot radio also. Yeah, he was burden now and it's like these and like nts in the, I guess the in the UK somewhere like nuts to soup radio. Uh, but like it, you know, he's like Internet independent radio stations that like our existing on the Internet and not broadcasting necessarily on the airwaves, but like building up these massive followings and saw, it was like, it sort of seems to be serving like a new community, but then like the lot radio was really interesting because it had that like physical relocation in that like just shipping container in the middle of that like sort of desolated triangle and Williamsburg. So it's just like, you know, what's going on with these music communities and you know, and

Speaker 1:          00:18:05       it is another factor for that. There's another one called capers, which there, and they were in like some ramshackle structured to, I've actually been meaning to interim. It's run by a woman, her name is Sherry Barclay. And she calls herself a pirate. My actually, I had a, you know, a dignified discussion with some people who wrote an article and they're like, this is a pirate station. Pirates are cool. And I'm like, well, it's a great, it's a good station. But why are they calling themselves pirate? They're not technically pyre, especially in New York City where there are a lot of pirates and yeah. You know, they, they see that they're operating outside of the structures in a certain way. But what I think I brought it up because what happened in the early two thousands and I interviewed Tom Rowe of wave farm. So He, if you want to learn more about, about the nineties micro Castro's, he would be, he would be a good source.

Speaker 1:          00:18:57       Cool. Um, basically what the way he put it to me is, you know, people were, if they couldn't be on LP FM or if they didn't want to be part of a system, you're some people just like, I don't want to be legal, I don't want to be part of that. But at that time, Internet audio was to becoming a robust, robust enough to, you know, to be able to, you know, to stream and, and so a lot of the people who were in that see where attracted like this is a new experimental thing. I'm going to go online and won't be hassled by the FCC. So, so it Brooklyn, I mean, or in New York City there's a lot radio. There's another free Radio Brooklyn and I think they're, if there's this guy, Tom Tierney, I run across him recently online. He, he like for some, for some thesis he did. Um, I don't know what the program was. He'd get a look at sort of pirate radio in New York City, but he didn't actually talk to pirate operators. But he talked to some people who, you know, who had some opinions about them. I mean it's hard to find pirate radio operators or talked to you.

Speaker 2:          00:20:04       It seems like it. And so I'm curious like one of the, I was looking at what the stations that you linked to you from the pirate radio sound that and like one of them was advertising like a Facebook live stream or whatever and like, I dunno, like as you're listening or they are also like catch me on the Internet. Here

Speaker 1:          00:20:23       we are. We're come see me in the club or a lot of the Djs, um, they saw like I'm doing, they do these boat rides. So they do these cruises around New York City. Sometimes it's purely to make money for them and sometimes, um, it's for to raise money or some disaster in Haiti or things like that. So you know, a lot of the stations, they, and this might be one, you know, one thing to look at how they're different. Some have affirmed my identity and it could be that maybe they're at this point taking that they're streaming first and they're also on the radio. Yeah, I think it got, I think it goes both ways. Um, you know, now I'm most familiar with, with listing from here and I can, I hear well over 30 stations of for the most part every day. Well they start mostly in the evening and they broadcast at least late in late night. Did you see on my, I made a chart of the rest

Speaker 3:          00:21:31       cycle, uh, on my, on one of the essay pages in mind map.

Speaker 1:          00:21:46       So basically they go 24 hours on the weekends. Um, but during the week

Speaker 3:          00:21:53       they sorta there was, they have a different, you know, very ad hoc.

Speaker 1:          00:22:12       So I tried to chill. Yeah, totally. I was looking at this side. So one day I made myself listen to every hour. The station, I started to get seven, there were like 20 on the air and by 10 in the morning they went down to like around 10 ish. And, um, generally during the day, there may be like between four and 10 on and then starting at four o'clock more and more come on until by eight o'clock there sort of a pole strength. Which berries lately it seems to be between like 28 and 32. I, I just, every now and then I just counted them.

Speaker 2:          00:22:51       The, you just moved from one to the next, like sort of across the dock, the band and see who's on and who's not from like a fee the stations you've already identified.

Speaker 1:          00:23:01       Yeah. And most of them are the same stations, but there is no, sometimes they disappear for awhile. It's like, well where they shut down. Yeah. And they, you know, if sometimes they are and then they go back on so we can go through the dialects.

Speaker 2:          00:23:14       Yeah. Yeah, that'd be awesome. Please do let me know when I started taking up more of your app, you know, another half hour. Awesome. Thank you so much. I could probably talk for hours. Um, so, well, let me answer your specific question there. All right. All along these lines. So it was like, it's super helpful. Um, but yeah, I mean I guess like identifying a station in the first place where you basically like, well, I have this list of frequencies that are official and assigned to stations. And then, so if I'm something on another one, and this is piquing my curiosity and I'm going to monitor this for some period of time because that essentially the process that you're in March, I mean it's,

Speaker 1:          00:23:55       you know, people often say, well how do you know this is a pirate? Yeah, exactly. I mean, you can get, first of all you could do, you could just punch it, the frequency, do like 89, three New York and then you'll see what the official station might be on. But you know, again, coming from the tradition of listening to radio to listen to the weird stuff in the eighties and nineties, like Wfm, you, they totally foreign station and so are, you know, I pretty much know the door. Um, and, but again, there are like lists you can get y'all, I'll send you some resources where you can see what the illegal stations are there, you know, and some will sound like, oh is just a power. There are a couple, there was one commercial station that's like a sort of an R and B station which has a format close to some of the pirates.

Speaker 1:          00:24:43       There's a station 93 five which airs carved the Caribbean programming brokered format and there is one station or one streamer, a programmer RV storm radio, which you'll hear often on that station. But you also hear our reef storm radio on a hundred 0.7 which were, there's like a regional station that you could hear in New York if they were, if they weren't on there because you could hear stations from outside the city too. And a lot of the strategy for these stations is like they won't go right on top of WM YC, but they'll go on like a station in Long Island that you could hear well in New York, but they, they park on it and they plotted out. They can get stronger on it. Yeah.

Speaker 2:          00:25:32       How popular or prevalent among these stations that you're listening to do you find this cult call to listen format? Do you know about, about that? Like are you dial a number of audio now? Exactly. Yeah. Is that a big thing these days? I've just been reading about that.

Speaker 1:          00:25:46       Um, on one of my favorite stations and the samples on the map, um, it's a grace deliverance. Uh, Braeden it's a church and our, until I talked to the garden and he, we just decided to keep it off the record. Um, and he was quoted, I would, I talk about him in the New Yorker article and I actually asked him to take out the identification. But if you go, it's still on the map though. And if you go to 92.1 on the map, you can hear it. And he's the one, um, I like it because he's greeting, at least do it as imagination. You know, he's Jamaican and his congregation's mostly Jamaican and these sort of like preaching over this very energetic Ska music and he's greeting his Spanish. Lester's see it's grading is Yiddish list in crown heights and he's speaking phrases in Yiddish, in Spanish and in the middle of all that, um, uh, like a girl up and say, how can I hear you on the telephone? And he gives out the phone number. Oh, cool. Um, yeah, I think it's like a seven, three, two area code and someone, another Radio Geek told me, Oh, that's audio now that's a service. So we're not, from what I see, most of the stations are doing everything. They can get out to the listener. They're streaming, they're on the phone and either on the radio and I think the radio is now it's becoming more of an afterthought or is on because they've always been doing it.

Speaker 2:          00:27:13       It seems like the hardest part to me as someone who's not tech technical at all, like, you know, assembling a transmitter, I guess it's the cost is very low now. But like making it an antenna and like, or I don't know exactly all that's required, but uh, it seems like that would be the most laborious thing to do if you could just be like, I have a tune in account now and just like listen to that or whatever.

Speaker 1:          00:27:32       That's been my big question is, so why are they still doing it? Because there is, you know, I, I listened to lots of online audio too and you can hear Carrie was from all over the world and the people in the western audience, they presumably a lot of the creole stations and some of the other English showing the stations, you'll hear hours of like programming from a bar, from a station from Grenada are from Haiti. They'll just relay it and it's like, well good. They just listen to online. So when it comes down to is, is the culture and the rate of failure, rate of culture is still strong. And also it's the economics, like the, uh, the, the guy, the preacher of grace deliverance church radio. He's like, well, yeah, I stream, but I also, I wanted to reach people in the hospital. I want to reach the shutters, I want to reach the homeless. So there's sort of this ineffable and I know like just religious broadcasters in general and there are a lot of them now in Charlotte that's sort of like what's left. It's sort of, yeah, for the most part because a lot of the stations were like funded by governments to be outreach and now they have other ways to do it. So, um, so it's sort of like the potential of who you can reach more than who you do B.

Speaker 2:          00:28:54       Yeah. Right. Yeah. No, that makes perfect sense. Here. You addressed a lot of that in your email to me and I, and I think it makes perfect sense.

Speaker 1:          00:29:01       MMM.

Speaker 2:          00:29:03       That it still makes me scratch my head and like, Oh, you know, I'm going to go get this antenna up and running and, and risk that. Uh, especially now with the pirate acts, you not unanimously passed by the house, which is really surprising to me. Like I would think like, you know, the AOC use of the world would be looking out for the, for their constituents

Speaker 1:          00:29:24       or there's this, um, this guard, he was being moves, it's a petri dish peaked treatment.

Speaker 2:          00:29:32       He's, he's one of the founders of previous, oh yeah. I've been looking into that. Came

Speaker 1:          00:29:37       out of a pirate station called radio music. I can put you to talk to her care. And so he has, he's, he goes all over the world building like low power legitimate stations now for him. He's not with prometheus's anymore, but he actually put myself and this Guy John Anderson, who used to have a DIY media.net.

Speaker 2:          00:29:58       I, yeah, I've been reading that site and I, anytime an email bounce back from DIY media. So he has another address.

Speaker 1:          00:30:06       I'm not sure if he's going through like some sort of personal crisis, but he used to teach at Brooklyn College.

Speaker 2:          00:30:10       Yeah. I read his whole, uh, uh, exit note to them, which is kind of a here to share that. But he's a really smart, interesting guy. He's like the academic scholar. Everyone's been referencing him. I really appreciate that. A little rest of the man article you sign there. I read that it was really helpful

Speaker 1:          00:30:28       bond. Who's doing that work? I mean there's not that many people that are looking at it. Totally. And John was involved in um, in something when he was a Brooklyn College or they did, they tried to get a grant that would put these like raspberry Pi FM receivers and like constantly collect a Haitian radio. You tried to do it in conjunction with the Haitian studies department, so didn't fly. It didn't fly now. And there's no, uh, there's, uh, he, he helped to organize and on, actually I just sort of forced my way in the door to the brain, the RPT app. It's the radio preservation task force. I went to their website. Yeah. It rarely, an interesting group. And he spoke, there was like a hidden archives workshop and he spoke about, you know, or hidden communities that need to be art. And that's, you know, that's, I mean I have sort of a journalist's view, but I also, to me, I'm sort of doing a sonic capnography even though I'm not an apologist or ordinary bird, but no one was really doing like an official one.

Speaker 2:          00:31:32       Yeah. It's such a femoral information in the email. It's like it's here and it's gone. And I think that's like what's really appealing about or this world, you know, it's just like you can't really just like get it all at once. And that's why it's tricky for me coming from like a hard data, how do I transform this into something visual and people can understand when like the data is very much like out in the world and like hard to collect.

Speaker 1:          00:31:54       It's hard. I mean I spent five years collecting it because even when I was aware of what was on the air and like in passing like wow, they were like 25 stations on now, you know? Or I would check in periodically and just keep like kicking myself. Like Sunday, I really have to investigate this. So finally I had the space to do it. And at first it's like a big mush and it's hard to know what's there and a lot of, they don't all sound good. And you know, that could be skipping for hours, which sometimes happens. So it took, it took like a year to figure out like what's there, you only in this area, I've made some poor rays to other parts of the city and this really seems to be a hot,

Speaker 2:          00:32:35       yeah, totally. That Bush from everything I've read, but particularly the map and it's just like amazing how many stations you've listed. There it is. Do you, do you go in frequently and check it and who's on the, who's on air and who's off and who sporadically on or changing those, those categories? I hasn't done a lot of updating,

Speaker 1:          00:32:53       but I intend to. What I'd like to do, it's sort of preprogrammed. Um, although we, we mass the function where on the prompt paddle. Additionally we designed it with a button for each borough. So you click on it and it goes to the other area. But I haven't, I mean, I got some funding to do that product.

Speaker 2:          00:33:13       Okay. I'm going to promote your go fund the Avatar. Yeah. Don't worry him. David. I, I, I, I, I want to see you make a version 2.0 yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:33:22       What I'd like to do, do the other areas. So I've done like, I've done informal counts like in Queens. Um, I went to flushing one day, which was also near Corona where it seems to be the epicenter. So most of the stations there are our Latino. Um, a lot of them seem to be Dominican. There is, or was a one Chinese language pirate, but I think they might be off. There's another guy who tracks them. Any of the more, I mean, I'm not like totally an advocate for the pirates, but I, you know, I see. I understand. You know, I'm interested in what they do and I see there's a lot of good in what they do. Yeah, I would agree. There's this guy who runs a Twitter feed called Brooklyn pirates.

Speaker 2:          00:34:04       I just stopped it. I just stumbled across that. He seems like he has a lot of the antagonizer is there, people are not necessarily supportive of, I saw him in arguments on Twitter with a little bit of both.

Speaker 1:          00:34:15       And I mean he's protective of WFM year. I see. Because I do go interfered with, you know, and that's probably the downside. You know, unlike the Microcosmos of the nineties, there's no code or there's very little cohesion among the current pirates. It's sort of like every person for themselves. And so one, they're not advocating for themselves like, hey, let's band together and try to change the law. Um, so they are either consciously or unconsciously harassing stations that are also low power. They are legal. So unfortunately they do cause an appearance to stations that that shouldn't be interfered. Yeah, totally. That makes perfect sense. So, you know, so that's, you know, that's why I tried to look at both sides of the issue. But you know, most of the process is like, you know, especially in the radio industry press, you know, they're scammers are horrible. They're terrible. Well, there's a lot more to it. Absolutely. You know, and why are they taking the risk? It's not, they're not bad people. Most of them see themselves as activists within their community and there's lots of cries out of there making a lot of money and they don't make any. Yeah, I can't imagine. I mean even with the ads, a lot of it, like there used to be the station station SMS, well there's an SNS income tax, you know, so it's like he's promoting his own business and some of stations, some of

Speaker 5:          00:35:37       the model

Speaker 1:          00:35:38       seems to be that they at least go sell time to people. Um, you know, so one or it could be programming totally of ones, you know, one guy or, or, or a teen. And then others, it's hard to know. Maybe they run the transmitter and they parse out at the time or maybe they have one primary Dj, you know, and then other people come in. You know, I, I've, you know, I've gotten in touch with like a half a dozen deejays under station operators, but most of them, they don't return your car. One that a feature in the first part of my documentary, I actually ran into by accident and I was treated, I was recording one day talking to people in the street and this guy called me over and said, are you a reporter? I said, yeah. He said, are you weak? Are you here to ask about the recent unrest in Haiti? And like, no, I don't know anything about it. And then we started to talk and he was, he revealed himself to be an operator, one of the stations. And he agreed to talk to me.

Speaker 5:          00:36:40       The motivation, it seems purely just like community based, you know, and mostly my mom pretty much. Yeah. I mean, you know, I mean there

Speaker 1:          00:36:48       for a DJ, they want to get the, you know, worried about their gigs out and I think it's a way to sell themselves. But this guy told me, this guy named Joseph Joseph in radio comedy up on, um, he was like, you know, this is a poor community. So if you hear an ad, it could be that, you know, they're not paying for it, but they bring us food, you know, or it's a friend of someone who's doing like the, um, the grace deliverance radio. It's mostly those, you know, Gospel format. But one night I heard it's like there's just like, there's an accountant, um, you know, to talking about. And so when I met the Fisher partying, the uh, you know, the guy who runs the church, he said, oh, that's my accountant. I told him I have a show. So occasionally there's these, uh, like anomalous programs totally tidy up here as well.

Speaker 5:          00:37:40       Do you think that with higher it there's some looming thing, bad thing? It's really hard to know. I mean, it seems like the sec ops says are decimated now. There's that are like hard to basically ineffectual to like go out after people. The

Speaker 1:          00:37:56       thing, the legislation which raises the penalties. And basically one of the things that does is, um, there are three steps towards going after a station. The first one is the end. You have the notice of unauthorized operation, which is basically they send you a letter and it says, well, we've noticed you're operating as a station on 89 three. If you have a license for this station, please send it to us because they know. And then there's the second step is the mal, the notice of assess liability where they say, well, you, oh, you're still in the air. So we're issuing a fine. Essentially the new, the pirate doc does away with that with the first step so they can go right to issue. We were fine, but I think they've had some leeway on that too. But yeah, I don't know. I mean, they're, they're trying to have a posture of cracking down.

Speaker 1:          00:38:49       I interviewed, um, Rosemary Harold at the FCC, the enforcement chief when I was at the RPT F, um, a year ago November. And you know, with the Trump administration, um, in an adjunct pie is now that the commissioner, you know, the tag commissioner, they've had this like new focus and we're going to crack down before that, during the Obama years, the FCC commissioner who was under a lot of pressure from the broadcasting industry, they issued this letter and you can find it on John's site where they're like, well, we know it's a problem, but there's not much we can do. We're trying to do all these other things. But they played, played down in enforcement. But I think what it comes down to is they don't have the staff, right. And there's nothing in the new paradigm that has a revenue stream for, for, um, increasing enforcement. What I've heard in the Scuttlebutt, there's one, maybe two people, both name Luis.

Speaker 1:          00:39:51       It's your job basically to go around to the stations and it's usually complaint driven. Um, when I, uh, got Guy Petri dish that I told you about, he actually, I had saw him, he gave a talk about community radio, including pirates. And it used to be like back in the eighties and nineties. The FCC enforcement, it was their role to sort of maintain the purity of the frequency of the band. So they would actively sort of go after them. And then it changed to more of a complaint driven system. But at the same time, and this is something that Patrice said in the talk I saw, it was during the Clinton years, the guy who was running the FCC then he was like, why does this have to be the government's job to police? The bands are really should be more on the industry. And so you know, partly for that philosophical reason and partly for economic reasons, they got rid of field stations.

Speaker 1:          00:40:52       There used to be a lot of, you know, there's still one in New York, but I've been tub. So anyway, they don't really have the staff anymore. And when the pirates started the rise in the 90s they went after them a lot. But then, especially in New York City and Miami and Boston I, the way I put it in my piece, there's a safety in numbers. There's just too many to take thought there. So I think, you know, and when they are taken off the air, like when I interviewed bishop partying, um, they'd been off the air for a couple of months and you said, well, I don't really want to talk to you. What's in it for me because I want to go back on the air. Right. So, you know, so a lot of them wait a few months and then they go back on the air. When I interviewed the guy from radio comedy, he, he described a time when he and a couple of his friends were at the station and then it was knocking on the door.

Speaker 1:          00:41:43       It was the FTC. And they're like, they're very polite and professional, but they're like, wait, you're, you know, you're, you're operating a pirate station. And they're like, no, we're not. We're like, yeah, you are. Just take the antenna down and we, and we won't give you a fine. So I think the way they operate now is just on a practical basis, they're just trying to adjust the complaints and get them off their, but there, you know from suddenly two guys going around to the possibly 100 stations all over the area, there's not that much they can do. I think now the FCC is, they're telling another tactic where they're bringing in the Justice Department because in the city I think there's, if there, if you're going to rate a station, you want to, I think you have, they have to partner with the police and the police turned on it.

Speaker 1:          00:42:32       It's a low priority for them. And so now they're trying to get the justice department and Blah. And in Peekskill, New York there was an Ecuadorian station and there are several, well maybe you'd like three or three to five in the area that broadcast. So that's like us, you know, that's an, it's an outlier, but there's still several, the Broncos with our community. So basically the, if the FCC was able to get a prosecutor interested in Peekskill and they arrested the guy, wow. You know, so and that's usually much more of a consequence then there is. So they aren't trying to crack down. I think mostly they want to send a signal but so I think if you're no longer, if you're outside of the metropolitan area then there may be more of a risk to those people.

Speaker 2:          00:43:22       Yeah, that was really helpful. I want to ask you about shortwave and the current sort of situation. They're like, I don't know anything about it. Start waving. You just said this way. I like like really just programming is essentially the last remnant going on there. There's still, there's some state sponsored programming, but is that historically what it was always like it was this is a government, it's a government program.

Speaker 1:          00:43:45       Yeah, pretty much either. It was sort of, I mean there was a couple of different threads I have to cite short way biology.

Speaker 2:          00:43:53       Yeah I will, I was looking at that was a little out of date and also there's a really good site as to sw elling doc. I've been looking at that too. If a

Speaker 1:          00:44:00       friend of mine, Thomas Witherspoon of cool. So, I mean it's sort of wave has a long history, but when I encountered it as a kid in the 60s, essentially you could hear a lot of what was easy to hear on a really cheap radio was um, basically the external service of a country. So you could hear the Radio Netherlands here, they had a special service. It was for expatriates and sort of like a sock diplomacy to other countries and sort of, and similar would like to, you could hear the BBC World Service all the time. Um, there was voice of America, there was radio Moscow and they, you know, specifically had external services to other countries to see, um, that was a lot of what you could hear. What you could also hear where I'm regional services. So like a con, like an s, there are still some Middle Eastern countries which are on shortwave like Saudi Arabia and um, and a few others, Kuwait, uh, but they used to be a lot in Africa as well. Um, they used to have like regional services for parts of the country. Um, most of them have, you know, the majority of going off the air, but there's, there's still some, uh, lab, but there's a lot more religious broadcasting. It used to be. It seems like though, and they're always was religious podcast. There's more, there's more.

Speaker 2:          00:45:24       It seems like the wild less, I've been listening to like one of those websites where you can like, it's unions and a frequency, the browser or whatever and use someone else's antenna I guess is what it is.

Speaker 1:          00:45:32       Yeah. Like, like FCR dot h here. Yeah. They're basically when a web enabled SDR that you can to their grade.

Speaker 2:          00:45:42       I think it's really interesting. I don't like from a visual perspective, I'm just like so attached to that sort of waterfall, you know, spectrum that, um, she was like the streams as they go or whatever. Yeah. I mean, I think that, that, like, it's just like so compelling,

Speaker 1:          00:46:01       you know, it's like moving, you know, from doing audio or real, real, you know, and doing it intentionally.

Speaker 2:          00:46:10       Yeah. Are you approach peoples person the same as like, and, and doing music and stuff? Uh, I only, uh, and uh, it's, uh, it's a good program. Yeah. So yeah, they're still on. There were short way pirates as well. Yeah. That do not get bothered by the FCC every be, I can imagine like if I, if I was a pirate or if I wanted to broadcast, I think the thing I would do is set up something on youtube that stream set up something I get tuned in channel that just constantly is playing and then like maybe just put up a short wave station just to see if I could like reach anyone random who would be interested in hearing something weird, you know,

Speaker 1:          00:46:47       here, well, people do, there's a frequency range. If you, there's this guy, um, Christopher Linsky, you've like picking some Westminster, Maryland. He has an online receiver and he's like one of the, he's interested in short way pirates. Um, black caps systems is one of your sites.

Speaker 2:          00:47:07       I've been looking at that website, which is amazing. There's so much weird stuff on that website. Like all these crazy, I've like applications go Laura. It just seems like there's so many apps use of software maybe. Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:47:19       Years ago, I did a piece for NPR on these shortwave stations called the number station, um, which were basically sort of espionage related station. And he's an expert on those as well, but he knows a lot about shortly pirate radio. I'm interested in the surely pirate radio, but it's at this point it's, it's sort of like a small crowd of people who do it and then people who will listen to them. You know, I find the FM pirates a little more compelling because it's, it's, it's treated as a vital service and they're running more risk. I think now the FCC focused, I don't think they, you know, unless they're interfering, um, or, or if they're amateur operator or amateur radio operators who are sort of violating the code of amateur radio and acting like a pirate. And there are some of those, they'll, they're going after those guys. Yeah. But there are, you know, frequently every day I'm sure way pirates, you know, and they'd go, they'd go on for an hour or two and they'd play weird music a while back. Like in the eighties, there was similar kinds of stations. Uh, but there were also, there was one called the voice of tomorrow, which was like a, you know, a Neo Nazi right. Station. So that was also a reason for getting onto your, we've been putting it off. You're a very arcane programming,

Speaker 2:          00:48:48       right? I mean, that's my fear, but if I was really to delve into it, like, you know, I just like find all this like horrible, hateful, something like, you know, just like there's some of the eye. Yeah.

Speaker 1:          00:48:59       And they're like several US-based shortwave legal stations and how they broke or they sell time. Right. It's just like the wars all the time or whatever. There's one that's imposed upon 48 40 that's imposed from time to see. Um, but um, yeah, and like, and heart does heart pastor Pete Peters, who was this like Neo Nazi guy. Um, so there's a lot of that on, on legitimate stations as well. There's not too much on the pirates of that stuff. It's mostly like jovial, fun stuff.

Speaker 2:          00:49:38       Isn't it funny that though, like the legal, the legal channels are the ones that brought against all the like terrible.

Speaker 1:          00:49:44       Yeah. There's, so there's sort of like, they're like the guys who were on short wave now doing pirates youth there. We sort of related to the guys the space that I would hear the eighth and the 18th, sort of like pranksters tech, pranksters tenderly. What does that application that you're running? It's called the wind radio. Excalibur. It's, so there's a hardware box. Oops. That's very easily disconnected. Um, and so that's the radio and that's the song.

Speaker 2:          00:50:16       Oh, so you're running windows on that computer booting in the windows on my laptop. It seems like it's much more PC friendly too.

Speaker 1:          00:50:24       Mac str programs, but they're, yeah, like the lion's share is elsewhere. There's a good cheap SDR. Um, this, I also, it seems like I'm always willing these things, but are one say in this crazy raffle, but there's one called the SDR play. Hmm. Um, are the RSP one or two? Um, I bought one of those parts. I think this is it because, um, it can record up to make eight megahertz. So how was my plan was and still sorta is to go around different parts of the city or record big chunks of the band and then you can play it back.

Speaker 2:          00:51:03       Totally. That seems like that's what's so appealing. It's just like go get a broad swath and then taco hard drives behind you.

Speaker 1:          00:51:09       That's all. Like ours have shortwave spectrum recording. Oh Wow. So you can, it's really cool. You can go about like five years ago and listen to like this unusual propagation opening to Peru. Yeah. Yeah. That is cool. I mean, it's a shame it didn't come in sooner when there were more stations on the, yeah. But the other, on the other hand, eight megahertz, I mean, eight megahertz of bandwidth, which is like a third of the FM band. It'll grow it. You use it buck a terabyte and then how [inaudible] relates storage. Yeah. Yeah. He's intense. One or two megahertz is, yeah. It's more doable. Yeah. But that's still, it's still a lot. Like I had a residency, a wave farm a couple of years ago. One of the things I was doing was to recording some of the last, uh, another kind of station that's on way of our domestic stations.

Speaker 1:          00:51:58       So like in Brazil and Peru, in the Pacific islands, they have stations which broadcast just to the region. And most of them are gone now, but there's still a few. So I was using the SDR to like your record from five in the morning to seven in the morning, which is this window of propagation and though, Bro, when they'll come in and totally, yeah. It's called the Greg gray line propagation. MMM. Like [inaudible], you know, dawn in my area and dawn in your area or dawn in my area at dusk in your area. That's signals will the property awesome. So

Speaker 2:          00:52:37       fantastic. I'd love to take a quick spin through the dining if you're down for it.

Speaker 3:          00:52:40       Yeah. So no, it was whose,

Speaker 2:          00:52:52       yeah, might as well take out the loan book. Right.

Speaker 3:          00:53:00       Okay.

Speaker 1:          00:53:01       So what are you thinking? You know, what you might look at it in terms of what you could do. Good.

Speaker 2:          00:53:07       Well, I feel like the data, uh, is, uh, on like who's signing up for streaming services, like tune in and shall cats is readily available. Right. And so like, I think if I could figure out some way to like, I love to make an exploratory interface where people just like get something, they're interested in listening. Something interesting right off the bat.

Speaker 5:          00:53:26       Have you ever seen radio garden that looks, yeah, that's a pretty cool set up that website. That's definitely like an inspiration. There's like, yeah, it's so cool. But like something God is comprehensive. It was two people significative yeah, I believe that because everything's like one dot on the town or whatever. And people who made it, they didn't realize what was going to be. So yeah. Oh my God. But it's a very cool idea. I really like it, but like I don't really want to do something Matt based, like I said, like I would like to do something more that's like a volume based, but very much like any resources that you can think of for information would be greatly appreciated.

Speaker 4:          00:54:10       Things, you know, data that collector and visualize, you know, demographic, like look at the devil, you know, and I can call you in to a certain degree of where the stations are popular. And I'm, the Barista did this to a degree and her paper, but you know, Patterson, New Jersey has a lot of corona queens has a lie. So you could do a demographic analysis of WHO's living here, how many stations are on, you know, that's something that I could be to send them to or, so this is, this is actually below the official FM. Bam. This is, um, the broader Luby air. This is a Haitian station.

Speaker 5:          00:54:50       What dial is that? [inaudible] 87

Speaker 4:          00:54:53       cool. Another thing that I think is interesting to look at is the breakdown of who's on the air and the heal. What audience? Who's your product council too? So I'm gonna, I'm gonna put an h for every LPL language station on the cross. So that's another thing you could look at whose, who are the audiences, how many stations are going to which audiences here in flat Bush of the 30 plus stations like here, a third of them are Haitian. They seem to be the most argued after that Jamaican Grenadian. There was a lot to the doubt in Ecuadorian also not here, but in Queens and New Jersey.

Speaker 4:          00:55:41       And I've been trying to find out like why are some patients not on, like why are there no Pakistanis station? I think it depends on the culture to do certain degree, how long they've been established here, what the media was like in their home country. So this is, um, this is a Hebrew station called hustle know, where are we now on the towel? We're idiots haven't, I think we skipped over one 88 five, which is fear to, Hey Sharon Murphy, which for months or longer, they have a bad transmitter. There's like a growl. What Stefan world as something they've never corrected. So yeah. So this is the seams. The advertising on this station, um, puts the audience like around APP and you know, sort of the Midwest hard, it's excuse to be worried towards the, the Sephardic community. And during the day they often play, um, different stations from Israel, but they also break it with local programming and they play a lot of like total or lecturers and things like that. I visited another station in that community that's not off air called J radio. It's on the tuner. Um, and they said, yeah, come on over. But then they deny it completely being hard. I don't know who put me on the, whereas the person I was texting at the station totally acknowledged that they were, but the owner did not. Unfortunately, I couldn't get, I couldn't get that on the record.

Speaker 4:          00:57:25       But when you read the press on these stations, a lot of them say, it wasn't me putting it on. Now that there's a section that was been pretty prominent on 88, nine, but they do not the air, um, it cook to, to Hill Fm. It's like a English Caribbean Gospel Station. They've been off like probably for at least a few days. I know, you know, sometimes I get caught up in other thing so I don't necessarily know how it could have been longer. They've been like 24, seven on this frequency performance. So they're off the air. You know, if there is a programmatic way to like scan the dial, it has something else to do this for you. So you're not just checking every day well log or whatever. I don't know if that exists. Not really. I mean I guess he could automate some systems similar to what John Anderson wanted to do with these raspberry Pi receivers by, or you could, you could record a sample and an SDR and go through it later.

Speaker 4:          00:58:34       Right. That makes sense. Pretty much. This is the way I do it. This is a station, another Haitian station Rottie Minago Vaco back probably 20 years. And, and on their website they actually say they have a license from the FCC, but they, they definitely did. And they even talk on their website, um, how, you know, they've even transplant really, you couldn't write a check to this guy at the station and they come out in the, in the evenings and they're on all become, here's the situation, the 80 [inaudible], this was a station there used to be called Rania Liberte and then they went off the air and then they came on like a year later. I think I might be the same station, but I'm not sure. Well, they first came back home. They were relaying these legal Haitian stations. Have you heard of the sub carrier authorization? Yeah. It just was reading about that, um, for a long time.

Speaker 4:          00:59:53       Foot. Oh, okay. This was like the home of ethnic radio. Yeah. Yeah. So I've had one of these receivers for years and there used to be more, and they're probably down to make like 12 or 14 stations, but there's still five patients suck authorization stations. So when, when this station first came back on the air and they were running different sub carries too. It's too, it's like who is this fair? Sometimes you hear that overlap there. They're pretty well known in the community. If you walked down Nostrand avenue, you'll, whether it's [inaudible] rather Shamar and um, brought it was so loud and they were popular in the early nineties during the, you know, the political turmoil in Haiti. Um, talk your ear off. A lot of what they do on the weekends, which was confirmed by the guy I talked to is they'll call the people back home to get the news. This is, this is the guys I talked to, radio comedy. They do have a bit of a audio aesthetic to them. He can hear him

Speaker 3:          01:01:19       Yup.

Speaker 4:          01:01:21       Despite the foreign language, but there's something about the quality get correct. They used to be a well known, um, patient session here abroad Rado Independent on sleeping off for half a year and they were cited by the FCC. Oh Wow. So, um, sometimes you can hear a Haitian sister from New Jersey. This frequency, a 91 three is another Harvard frequency. Um, um, there's often a prominent, uh, Caribbean, the Gospel Station, this guy, brother Gary, who you can also hear on legitimate broker time stations. Um, but they were off the air for a couple months. They came back around and Christmas Day on like 24 hours a day with preachers and Gospel Program, they've been off for the past week. So if I don't know why it's a weird problem or maybe they were something else totally as coming in real clear. Yeah. I mean not all true.

Speaker 3:          01:02:36       Wow.

Speaker 4:          01:02:38       You know, sitting, I do a map and show me the stations. I'm not showing where the transplanters are. I don't know. I'm not trying to get them all and I'm parked. I, well, I've taken some pains. Like I've collected all the websites of these stations, but I'm not putting that information now. I have to combine all the information for the FCC. You should do something.

Speaker 5:          01:03:02       Did you ask the stations that you did put the links to if that was cool? Or does it vary? Just like as an example, here's a couple, a handful of these stations. There's a few, like in the opening, there's like a, I, I think ire radio, maybe it was one of the store movie. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you mean in terms of doing their audio, right? Yeah. Just like, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 4:          01:03:22       Um, no, I didn't think Mr. Permission. Yeah. Well first of all are they wouldn't return my calls.

Speaker 5:          01:03:29       Yeah. Well some of them they were, it's just like, well, here's my Facebook stream. But nothing, no one talks about being actually on the radio, but like, here's my tune in, or Ivan. Yeah.

Speaker 4:          01:03:36       Some of them do, but I picked it becoming more, more discreet. Yeah. There are many on Facebook, Facebook live. Yeah. There's a lot of, and there's a station, I spoke with them, they agreed to talk to me under if I used a pseudonym and for a long time afterwards could they, obese told me, um, that they didn't know they were doing any finger leave, I'm to cloud. Okay. Um, and so they, they said, well, we're now we're scared. What should we do? I said, well, you know, you've been on the air for three years and you haven't had any problems, so probably you're not on anyone's radar. Um, but maybe you want to take, you know, on their Facebook page, maybe you want to take the number off now, this very same station was being covered by via, by Spanish spice and people were doing stories about this station. Say there's this popular Dominican station in Brooklyn, no one at the stations put it together. Like how could this possibly be a station in New York City operating in the basement of a in

Speaker 3:          01:04:42       Huh.

Speaker 4:          01:04:55       This 91 nine was the historic pirate radio frequency in New York that you should really were just like maybe four frequencies at the pirates to use. Now they use multiple frequencies and Wfm, you recently got a translator on this frequency, but it sounds like I'm hearing two stations. There's one called in the streets. English Caribbean. Yeah, there, yeah, you'd again, and that's the thing I'm, you know, when the FCC can plays are like, oh, they're taking away, you know, revenue from advertisers. It's like, well no one, this bakery on Utica avenue is not going to be able to buy anytime anyway. Right.

Speaker 4:          01:05:48       So this is, the grace delivers material. So already, so we're, we're up to 90 to one so we've heard one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine stations. So that's the noncommercial bands or nine stations in the noncommercial band. Um, and six of them are Haitian station and they used to be, there were two other suburb regulars and they've been off the air for a while. It's more than me is more than Raymond cause this choice radio. They have a lot of syndicated religious programming, but they also have local, you know, Caribbean gospel influenced stuff. They're on all the time. They're on during the day. Which frequency is that? 92.9 this is a station, this is the broker timestation WPI in Westchester. So they have a lot of Caribbean programming that people are paying the time for it.

Speaker 4:          01:07:02       So some of the ads you hear hear and you'll hear on the pirate frequencies. This is 94 blind. It's right next to WWE mic, but sometimes there's a function station on the side of it. That's okay. That's what you really want to get nitty gritty. There used to be a station here, but there's also a jersey shore station called the point of Eagle station. And they seem Duke's have scared the pirate, but this time they're weak today. But this is a, this is a local station. Pretty sure one of the Haitian, this one's fairly new. This used to be an English language station way by its radio for the Jamaican can be the day. And then when, during the interview for the New Yorker piece, there was a new station on and when they're talking about international women's Day and now that stations off a Haitian station has taken over. Yes. Those are our legal religious translators. Tuition from, it's like a South Jersey Christian station. But this is where Jay root radio used to be an orthodox Jewish station. And when I talked to the guy, even though he denied being a pirate and not knowing who put their signal on there, he was like, he was like, we were targeted. They targeted the Jewish community and purpose of Lee. I don't think it was done on purpose. Yeah. I don't think they knew, but that's, that's how he felt.

Speaker 3:          01:09:15       Yeah, that's all good. There's often a patient section here, but they're not on me. Well dog. Wow.

Speaker 4:          01:09:29       This is boom station or a prominent one. You'll see posters on the street. They were off her a couple of months and they recently came back. I think that was one that I thought I clicked the link from the higher the radio man. I say that and now that they've come back on the air, they're on flight 24 hours, which was [inaudible] 95.9

Speaker 4:          01:10:01       no this week was, he occasionally has a pirate. Um, this is uh, uh, it's a very sort of humble religious station tied to this little church on Margaret's avenue, Christ Kristen Tempo. They are one of the few stations without a web presence of any kind, no website, no stream. They see become on mainly late at night with the feature just talking and playing Gospel music like that. So you just listened to until you catch a name and then, and then Google the name or whatever. Is that what I started have to do is all just, I'll record it for hours or all sit on their frequency hours before it comes on the air to catch the sign on. So that's how I've gotten a lot of the material for my documentary. Got It. Um, or I'll, we're all running the table nine to see when they go off the air, you'll see what the programming is sometimes like there's this, this, this reason.

Speaker 4:          01:10:55       I just started listing the other night. It's a istation that's been on a lot and they just played the same ad over and over and over again. And so I thought, hmm, I wonder how long this is going to go on. And I was going to bed, so I started recording. I just recorded to my computer on using what at a high job. Yeah. Yeah. I love it. Played until three in the morning. Wow. Same like 62nd ad over and over again. It was probably a mistake, but unfortunately, you know, they don't do their selves a lot of good when they have that kind of, you know, those mishaps. Yeah. This is to be a prominent pirate frequency, 97, five and uh, illegal translator came on the frequency, um, which is like Spanish Catholic programming. You can't see with Nova. And recently a Haitian stations started taking over the frequency, which is really unusual to go on like a a main yeah, we'll see other the station. So it could just be there. They're just, he'd listed don't care.

Speaker 3:          01:12:08       So I'm trying to this,

Speaker 4:          01:12:14       I'm not sure. This is probably the Haitian station rather than the, the, the Spanish Catholic station. Cause I think this cow, they wouldn't play any of, you know, slang was, it sounds like r Kelly without Kelly. I think so. Definitely not the case. Sorry.

Speaker 3:          01:12:47       Yeah,

Speaker 4:          01:12:49       this is another station, global mix radio. They're on just their dominate this frequency you live in. I think they've been there for a long time. Which one is this? Sorry, global mix radio 98 45. It's like you're a west Indian pumpkin probably to make him programming of sometimes you hear like if just doing side programs, not just music but um, like an African oriented show, politically oriented show. Sometimes you hear things like that, that like content that you might hear on Wbai. You're also hearing on gas stations. Okay. Here's another story. Something like Radio Gospel Truth. Yeah. It's run by a minister, Minister Dennis Chin. I tried getting in touch with him. You seem to adjust to many block you on Facebook and that's another thing you could break down because just listening to you in this area, you know I say a quarter of the stations like here, our religious right on the often tied to a chair. So you know their patients, religious totally stations, some of which are Haitians, Janae English language to make it. And Grenadian soon know that some of the breakdowns you could possibly explore

Speaker 1:          01:14:14       90 93 this is a permanent stage, the fire station. And if you search online, you can read about the bust of this station. We, several years ago it was covered in the music trust. If they have some influential Djs, they were on one oh four, seven for a long time. They came back on, um, and then went, we for seven also became illegal translators station. So they found another frequency.

Speaker 3:          01:14:43       Oh,

Speaker 1:          01:14:46       they're right next to be.

Speaker 3:          01:14:49       Okay.

Speaker 1:          01:14:51       There's a section here. Yeah, they're by like this one. I've never heard programming. It's just music. It's not a song. One time I heard a phone call on the station as I remember it was going on there. So I don't know the name of the station, but they just play music nonstop. So that's what I'll do. I'll like record them for 12 hours and then I'll go back. I'll put it in pro tools and I'll go through to see. Yeah. You know, if I see any ideas or any language. This was another prominent because it was fine. Which one? 99.9 triple nine on the website. It goes from every recorded, um, immigration attorney, well talked about Trump, Russia and the KKK to keep you from being a citizen. So there, there are fewer stations as you go higher on the dial, but there's still some, yeah, this is our restore me. Which you can also hear on the broker time station. It's the Jamaica station. Why is it that there are fewer hires it harder? Well, it could be that they take advantage of the noncommercial band. Right. You know that it's harder, but it's probably, you know, there are fewer of them spots. Yeah. Right. Probably. But there's still, there's still several. Yeah.

Speaker 3:          01:16:21       I mean

Speaker 1:          01:16:27       there were 10 in the non commercial band and so there's been another 15 cents. Yeah, yeah,

Speaker 3:          01:16:36       yeah.

Speaker 1:          01:16:44       Listen, good Fisher to New Jersey. But often there was a local station I take the station that's on, it's called wild FM and they, they play a lot of like country program from Jamaica is for you to sue.

Speaker 4:          01:17:10       This is the section that was probably been nonstop but didn't do it on sound like they're on today, which is unusual.

Speaker 3:          01:17:22       Normal Dickerson.

Speaker 4:          01:17:32       This would normally be like a w I think it's w hair. Okay. Long Island. A prominent, you know, commercial music station. And usually there's, um, this is red hot radio. They're Caribbean English istation. But during the day, um, lately I've been hearing a station, um, uh, Spanish Christian station from New Jersey and, uh, and I've been talking to the about it, who's the guy who runs a brick from the power locks? Cause he works in Newark. It's hard to tell them. It could be a low power FM station, but we, I haven't found any data

Speaker 3:          01:18:08       to confirm that.

Speaker 4:          01:18:16       Here's another one, one or three. And this is one of the few stations that uses the rds, the readout. Oh yeah. Three why?

Speaker 3:          01:18:26       Okay.

Speaker 4:          01:18:33       They played a lot of stuff. This used to be where the fire station was, another Spanish Catholic station. Oh. Oh, you're on. They're using the rds but it's just like in the default seven oh no, no, no, it's on. So it says Demo Demo version.

Speaker 3:          01:19:20       You know the name of the son?

Speaker 4:          01:19:23       Uh Huh.

Speaker 3:          01:19:38       Help him out. Yeah.

Speaker 4:          01:19:56       Oh this is Crawford family radio. This is another sort of religious base stations as well. Used to be a station. I'm

Speaker 3:          01:20:08       one of five, seven there was a like a labovitch. I see that station. And then more recently there was something called fun city radio, but they haven't been on for now. And you know, they're right next to Wqxr, which is done by Doug in ways too. So it could be that they're like, you know, you're getting too much. He and I talked to the, Steve Schultz did chief technical officer of [inaudible] w mic and he says, I'm there to FM frequencies W C to WQXR. They have like six pirates sort of on their signal. Oh really? Yeah. So you're on day take it. They're not happy about it. Yeah. We can't imagine. We get a lot of complaints. This is either illegal country music session from New Jersey or this or this is why. This is why they often play a lot of country music or this is, they seem to have the targeting like the Grenadian

Speaker 4:          01:21:17       well I never knew there was somebody, you know, grenade, Canadians. Yeah.

Speaker 3:          01:21:24       Okay.

Speaker 4:          01:21:25       Or at least who are, who aren't being served by other media. I don't think that's true.

Speaker 3:          01:21:29       Dory.

Speaker 4:          01:21:47       Yeah. So there's something, this is usually a station from Connecticut which comes in like a local. Um, for a long time there was a station called the flavor station would see mostly to be their advertising was Queenie. It's related with the Cayman really strongly and now they seem to be off the air and there seems to be like a Caribbean Gospel station. Well, I've also heard a Haitian station, so sometimes you can hear, especially during the day stations from the other boroughs. Sometimes like there's some queen swabs. I've heard one in Mount Vernon. Sorry. So when are we got, we have, so this is the very top here? Yeah, one oh seven. So that's definitely a station. We were just, you know, a lot of them, they're operated remotely, so who knows what's going on, right? Yeah, yeah. For 25 so that's, that's a little low. Yeah. Yeah. There's some regulars that are off the air either once, like two or three that I had been off. So it's hard to know. Is this the crackdown? Is it just a weird time for some other reason? Yeah. Um, this woman who's been a contact to the Haitian, seen who will be at my talk, she's all, well, sometimes they just go home

Speaker 1:          01:23:06       and they just turn off the station while they're away if they don't have someone to run it. That makes sense. So talk to me. So, yeah, so that, that's the lowest I've counted in a while. But it could be that also later in the day it could be higher or lower, but generally the weekends is to prime time. If you really want to get the feel for it.

Speaker 5:          01:23:27       Maybe I'll pick up the radio and do the same thing. Yeah, yeah, definitely. Yeah. I'd be interested to hear,

Speaker 1:          01:23:33       I've listened from from not quite Carl Gardens, but clothes and you can hear someone from here, you can hear some from New Jersey. They're not on Staten Island that I can tell.

Speaker 5:          01:23:46       Maybe red hook would have something like this like you know, I just think maybe that would be like something like right next to right and look obviously so or like sunset park. I don't know. I had, it seems like maybe these would be other places for, I haven't heard of it.

Speaker 1:          01:23:58       You know, I have as soon as possible, but I to take your word for it, you're just speculating over here. Oh No. I mean more people need to listen. Yeah, it could be that you hear something that I'm not able to hear. I'll definitely let you know if I come across anything that isn't listed on the map. But yeah, because it's a fairly mature senior here, most of the same stations all the time. Although there is some term and you're going to be picking us up from here probably if there was broadcast happening in that over towards, uh, that's where I've held hopes too. So he would probably hear them really, you know, there was an Asian station and flushing so it's definitely possible. But I haven't heard any and I know I do go out with that radio and walking around Brooklyn and like he, he was in Bensonhurst like at 85th street and bath avenue on a Friday night and he texted me, he heard a orthodox Jewish stations, like they were on after the sabbath.

Speaker 1:          01:24:56       And I went there like three days in a row during the day, daytime in early evening. It's like whatever it was getting come back and you know, so could it have been, I looked at the map, there were several years she was in the area. So it could be like in some internal thing they were doing. So there are mysteries that you'll encounter. And when I was looking at her that station, I heard sort of like an older school use of pirate radio and 88 one I can't hear it here and I only heard it weekly, but for multiple blocks, someone was relaying an Oldie station from the Internet called route 66 radio. Like I finally got an idea when I got home, I looked it up. So someone has rebroadcasting this signal to Benson Hurst and in that area. But I never found where it was strong. But so who knows.

Speaker 5:          01:25:46       I mean that's what's amazing to me is like, you know, being an Internet radio station, then putting it on their waves for people to then tune in on there, you know, to nurses, it's just like, it's really interesting, the motivation behind it.

Speaker 1:          01:25:58       It could just be like tech fascination. Like, Hey, I can do this. Or maybe like, you know, I want be,

Speaker 4:          01:26:04       I don't want to plug in my iPad, my iPhone, I'm in the car when it listen.

Speaker 5:          01:26:07       Yeah. And running errands. There's a when, but that's a lower level youth. But there's probably some of that's happening here and there. There's a well growing up in Montclair and still to this day there's this one block in upper Montclair where there is, I think it's 91.9, but it just plays Boyz to men. I'll make love to you on repeat for like going on like 15 years now. And that was just like always a curiosity of our town. Like who is doing this and why are they going later through the parts stores? Yeah. Yeah. So it's the same song, one song on a loop for and my friend just went by yesterday and it's, I think it's still happening. How mark can you hear it? Just within like two or three blocks. They just do the same song. It's like a total prank I guess. But like at the same time it's a like an urban legend that this one. But it's true. It's like it really happens. Wow. Well, well here's, I don't know if we can hear this, but yeah. Um, there, there are these, um,

Speaker 4:          01:27:11       these stations are called t. I asked, so I travel who? Probation stations or like a little town, what have you know, information about the time. They're very low level, um, transmitters and on 1690 I think it's, I don't have my best downtown Orlando, sorry for the past 10 years and you hear it fades and during the day fades out at night. So it's probably, you know, I've surmised it's one of a couple of little towns. It's some local, they're playing a windows 2000 like audio test message. It just plays over and over again all day. It's been going on for 10 years. Wow. There was anything, there was another station on ply 50, which was probably a station broadcast into the belt. I've not the belt, the BQE like we're doing maintenance at this hour for two or three years. They broadcast a message, testing, testing, one, two, three testing. Wow. This over and over and over again. Wow. But that's illegal station. Yeah. But it's just very, very narrow purpose. I polite. Don't forgot. You know, the traffic emergencies over and, or I don't know why. I haven't been able to figure that one out too late.

Speaker 5:          01:28:27       Well yeah, it's, it's those sorts of things that are just like really fascinating. Why yeah. And that's Kinda, you know, that's what's neat about radio. You can find these mysteries even going to a place like New York City. Yeah. So David, thank you so much this, this year and we'll keep in touch. Yeah, absolutely. I uh, I let you know what happens next and a, I'd love to talk to John Anderson too if he, if you're here from him and he's up for it. I don't want to, I'll send, I'll send, I'll send them your address. Yeah, that'd be great if you can get in touch with you. Yeah, that'd be awesome. Yeah. Cause I did send them a note at the same time I wrote you and then just a bounce back after a couple of days. So yeah, I know. No, I'm not sure what's going on with him personally, but, um, he's archiving DIY media.net.

Speaker 5:          01:29:11       I know he is writing a book or on pirate radio. It's on a clip of him on a panel discussion from radio world where I said that he was trying to build an archive of pirate radio and like that isn't something I'd be really interested in talking to him about. Um, if it's a raspberry Pi thing, it's horrible. It was, yeah. Yeah. But he's really, I mean, he's definitely aware of the different stations, but, um, he's, he's moved to history in the policy and he was a pirate radio operator in like the microwave micro radio city. Cool. You know. Well if it, I don't want you to go out of your way, but if you have, if it's easy enough.

Speaker 4:          01:29:46       Yeah, no. And nobody would remind me. All right. No, I'm, I'm happy.

Speaker 4:          01:30:00       Oh, sorry. Allie Petri dish, who is good and trying to find one of the anti the FTC commissioners, this Guy Michael O'reilly who was very anti pirate. He supposedly, um, without, with a field recording field crew to track down the station and he made them Boston the station, which was like illegal. Yeah. Um, so petri dish, it was this guy who was working for Nancy Pelosi and he was, this guy was involved in finally getting LPF them Yo regular lives in 2012 so petri contacted me the can you surmise who that station might have been? Tired. So he came up with some ideas and recently, cause the pirate act was passed or the Republican House went on to the center over a died. And recently it was pretty broad. So this guy got in touch with John and myself to say, tell me more about the pirate arts. Is this, he said, there's probably not much I can do. I'm not willing to throw myself on the bottom. Yeah. You know, let me know your thoughts. And then at the end of the call you said, I'm going to put you in touch with AOC is people. And we recently, both of us corresponded with, um, someone in her office just days before the vote. So I'm really surprised that she would have voted for it. Yeah. Yeah. Given that in her district there were probably 10 to 15 a Latino.

Speaker 5:          01:31:40       Yeah, yeah, totally. I, yeah, I was thinking the same thing. So that's really interesting. I don't know why that a unanimous passage, it's just a little bit like you'd think that there'd be like one or 2% thing especially hurt. Yeah, that's what I thought I'd be, I'm not surprised. It's probably just a voice vote. Right, right. True.

Speaker 4:          01:31:55       Um, you know a lot of people that get their nutrients from the honey, right?

Speaker 5:          01:32:00       Yeah, it is interesting. You know, I love NPR, but NPR assertive and not, and they're cannot the, they're not the good guys in there I want to work with, but yeah, they were at the good guys and Lp FM, either native harder decisions. Right. So tell me about your program. Um, so I work at, for new school, I've been a long time. He's a cool person. I was an Undergrad there too. Oh cool. Yeah. It says design data entry and science and those three areas are leave the food. Thanks for having me over. How long is the program going? Full steam ahead is the only one here, but I, I work then my third year, I'm not really sure. It's just like I wanted to pick up a master's degree just to have in this area would be good. Like taking data and making it comprehensible and under your graphics.

Speaker 5:          01:33:16       But I don't really have like an a minus, you know, Gis, Gis, uh, not my forte at all. But if people definitely do work on it. And so if you're rowing in terms of people to like you know, help you with a project, I'd be happy to post the job and put you in touch with design students anytime you have. It'd be good to know the guy kind of coated the map. He was the Gis guy, totally new demographic, stuff like that. And you need like Pluto files and then like census data and so on. Not only does it properly on the map, but that would be a great lens to see on, on the pirate radio that you have already. It's like, you know, here the demographics are we going to do that? But it's, you know, w phones are live with it, but I, I would like to go to another iteration of it.

Speaker 5:          01:34:05       Yeah, absolutely. David. Let's stay in touch for sure. I'll see you like you're top. Yeah. Thank you. Good luck with the rest of your documentary. All right. Appreciate it. Yeah. Well that'll be out on the 13th a lot of the stuff I was telling you, it's not a documentary. Awesome. Well, if you think of anything, I'd be super grateful if you're just driving me links, you know, no explanation needed. Do you have some data to look at or something, you know, if you have questions, if you want to follow up. Yeah. All right. Well, thank you very much again. I really appreciate it. Nice to have a good rest of the day. Bye.

Speaker 3:          01:35:05       Okay.