
# Interview with David Curry (Tuesday March 19, 2019 @ 3pm)

## References

### https://github.com/samizdatco/ms2-2019/blob/master/students/suzanna/Improving%20UNIX%20Security%20(SRI).pdf

### https://www.bitsinthewind.com/about-dac/publications/unix-system-security


## 1.	How did you become interested in technology and cyber security field?  

### I grew up in West Lafayette, Indianan, where Purdue University is so in those days you could go over to campus and log in to the university to play games, so that is where it started.  I began in horticulture; and, then, I switched to engineering.  And, then, I switched to computer science.  So I was a Unix system administrator and a programmer. And, at some point I moved out to California; and, I worked for a place at Nasa.  And, then, I went to work for SRI International which use to stand for Stanford Research Institute before spinning off in the 1970s.  We had army contracts and we did stuff with Fort Bragg and Fort Lewis.  One of the thing I did was communications in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey.   They had had their systems get broken into; and, so I put together as part of my job a 50-60 page document on security at that point.  That is kind of where I got into it.  You can find that paper on the internet (https://github.com/samizdatco/ms2-2019/blob/master/students/suzanna/Improving%20UNIX%20Security%20(SRI).pdf).  And, then I got married and moved back to Indianan; and, went to work for Perdu doing security for the engineering schools there then I moved out to IBM.  So, I’ve been doing security ever since.  At some point, I wrote a book on it (https://www.bitsinthewind.com/about-dac/publications/unix-system-security) which was expanding the SRI paper.  For the silly trivia, apparently the paper from SRI which that book grew out of I used the word firewall.  Apparently, I am the first person to use the word firewall in print.  I did not invent firewalls.  I do not take credit for inventing firewalls.  But, when this book came out, about the same time as the first version of Practical Unix & Internet Security, which is the Garfinkel and Spafford which came out before the internet was a thing.  I was on the phone at that time with some of the guys who invented firewalls, for example DEC SEAL, so I picked-up the term and threw sheer luck of the draw was actually the first person to put it on a piece of paper.  So, when you get those job interview which say “tell us something unique about you” that is my story of there is something you don’t know about me.  I got this email out of the blue from someone doing research on the topic, I that is how I found out.  I then started searching around and sure enough, everyone was calling it a secure gateway, packet-filtering gateway…. All the things that it is.  I picked up the word firewall from somewhere.  I certainly did not coin the term.  



## 2.	Has there been significant changes to security, auditing, laws, and policy as data breaches are becoming more common?

### No.  Yes and no.  So much of security is about the same things that is has always been which is controlling access to stuff; being careful about where you send it, encryption, …. And none of that has changed.  What has changed is more the environment that you have to do these operations in.  It used to be you had a computer on your desk or data center and that is where it was.  Now you have everything in the cloud, which is just someone else’s computer and someone else’s datacenter.  So, now you are at the mercy of whatever they have done as well as whatever you are responsible for.  Depending on how you purchase your cloud services, you may be responsible for your own security.  In Platform as a Service, they give you the tools, but you are responsible for turning them on and setting them up.  In Software as a Service, where we using a cloud-based application, we are mostly at mercy of the application configuration.  We have some control over who can access what inside the system, but in some sense we are taking on faith that the rest actually is secure.  We have phones, laptops, tablets and USB drives all over.   One of the things that has changes is the interconnectedness of suppliers.  For example, some of the famous breaches show that the vendors were the source of the breach, not the company.   It is more policy, process, and procedure, than just about technology.

###There are differences in laws.  There are different data breach laws in the different states.  They are all the same and yet they are all different.  They all focus on personally identifiable financial information.  Typically, name, social security number, and about financial data.  They all require the breach to notify someone in the state government within nearly the same amount of time.  If you have a breach over multiple states, one of the hardest parts it to put together this whole spreadsheet of breach process across the states.  And, the breach can cause a different response in each state.  The different state breach laws are similar to the older GDPR directive where different countries had different laws doing the same thing in somewhat different ways.  California just passed the CCNA, which takes into effect next year.  It is very similar to the GDPR in California.  
Policy is the same over time.  Most of it is federal government.  New York State has some additional laws on financial regulation.  HIPAA only applies to covered entity, which is connected to the way billing is performed.  Smaller university health centers may only be covered under FERPA since FERPA and HIPAA have mutual clauses.  HIPAA was designed to protect electronic medical records.  PCI regulations is industry standard.  PCI shifts liability to merchants, so that the merchants must upgrade their equipment.  

## 3.	Since data breaches are happening across the globe at an unprecedented rate, are there any insights for future changes in technology as related to data breaches? (e.g., training, technology, administration, legal, auditing, etc.)

### Training is always a problem.  You can train people are you want, but at the end of the day, many of these breaches are targets of opportunity.  Depending on what organization is involved, there are different targets.  Organizations have different threats.   Some threats to smaller organizations are on accessing computer resources for themselves to do one of two things---either to use the systems as a jumping off place to attack other things or use them for the current trend of starting up cryptocurrency.   For those purposes, if they happen to break into a system that has sensitive data in it they will probably steal that data, too; however, the primary reason for breaking into the system initially was to hijack some resources.    Most of the security issues in smaller organizations are around innocent mistakes without malicious intent.  Sometimes you will see employees who want to work from home upload their information into their personal cloud storage provider drive box.  These personal accounts do not have the proper contractual protections in place; and, they are, thus, not allowed by policy.    Many places have people that are too busy to sit through training; and, is the training effective?  You can sit through it or click through it.   There are certain roles where for example require more extensive training for example on GDPR.  Technology marches on, there are all kinds of solutions that the vendors keep coming up with.  The vendors do not talk to each other and the services are painfully expensive.  Most technology are outside many organizations budgets; and, many services have dubious value.  Some organizations, which are under many security laws, have half million-security budgets.   Someday the US may have their own GDPR in place in the United States.  The breach laws came in around the 2000s and then the other states have followed over the last 18 years.  There have been discussion about having national data breach laws.  Banks on the other hand are subject to national data breach laws.  There is a national data breach law with HIPAA.  There is a smaller national data breach law under FERPA.  Under FERPA, you have to notify the Department of Education; but you do not have to notify the students.   Auditing.   There used to be something called the SAS70 put out by the AICPA.  The SAS70 was structured around you the customer to hire this CPA to come around and be an auditor.  You would put together this statement of ‘this is what we do’ and they would come in and verify it.  There were a couple of levels of that.  One was that they would read your documentation and say ‘yep, you are good to go.’  And, then, there was a second type where they would read your documentation and then they would go out and look to see ‘if you are actually doing what you are saying you are doing.’  Around ten years ago, the AICPA realized that security was becoming a huge concern so they came out with the SOC—SOC1, SOC2, and SOC3.  SOC2 Type 2 is the one that has is the strongest from a security perspective.  It has a piece on security, a piece on privacy, a piece on disaster recovery, a piece on high availability, etc.  There now is a set criteria of things to be audited on.  SOC2 Type 2 is good when there is a SAAS provider, which is handling a lot of personal data.  The SAAS needs to provide smaller organization with their annual findings and their plans for remediation.  Also, an alternative is to be certified for ISO27000/1 or ISO27000/2 (there are a few other certifications).  There are generally two types of auditing: (1) where they come in and audit you against your own policies; and (2) where they come in and audit you against set criteria.

## 4.	I am building a M.S. Thesis in Data Visualization around data breaches--specifically HIPAA.  (For example, I am bringing two posters that I recently designed which will be incorporated into the thesis.)  Are there any data breach material (perhaps HIPAA related at the health center) which the New School could benefit from posting or distributing?  (e.g. Posters, Handouts, Specialized Visualizations)  It would be a huge benefit for part of the thesis to turn into an immediate product for a customer.

### Yes.  Nice poster.  The quote is accurate; we do not care about the cost of the device.  About phishing, during a recent phishing attack, we could see that the hackers ran scripts, which ‘tried’ different events.  They were attacks, which were just run across schools.  Ponemon is pretty good for their statistics. Preparing for the phishing tests are interesting.  Many of the phishing tests are caught by the Google spam filters; and, the Google spam filters learn.

## 5.	Are there any specific additional insights about security and data breaches, which you would like to discuss?

### You can take our security training.  Suzanna – Thank you; I will to complete the thesis. David - I speak as an industry professional during this interview; and, do not represent The New School.



